           SOLVING LAPLACE'S EQUATION IN TWO DIMENSIONS 
                USING BOUNDARY INTEGRAL EQUATIONS 
 
This is a very brief discussion of the programs "drchlt.f" and 
"neuman.f", for solving the Dirichlet problem and the Neumann 
problem for Laplace's equation in two dimensions.  For complete 
details, see the following associated paper. 
 
   K. Atkinson & Y. Jeon, "Automatic boundary integral equation 
   programs for the planar Laplace equation", ACM Transactions on 
   Mathematical Software. 
 
The featured programs are named "drchlt.f" and "neuman.f", and the 
associated test driver programs are named "drchlt_driver.f" and 
"neuman_driver.f".  You will also need the files "d1mach.f" and 
"lasys.f", with the latter containing needed codes from LAPACK.  
If you have access to LAPACK separately, you do not need 
"lasys.f".  For "neuman.f", you will need in addition the file 
"rfft_pack.f".  These files are all provided here. The program 
"d1mach.f", as given, is configured for the workstations given 
later in this document; and it may need to be reconfigured for 
other machines.  The most up-to-date version of "d1mach.f" can
be obtained from the Netlib archive at the web site
	http://www.netlib.ornl.gov
All of our programs are written in Fortran in double precision. 
 
Two sample input data files are included, and they are 
identifiable with the suffix "data".  The corresponding output 
files are also given, and they are easily identifiable from their 
names and the suffix "ans.orig".  
 
The programs have been compiled and run on 4 types of workstations 
and also under MS Fortran on a PC.  The workstations used are as 
follows. 
 
	SGI O2		Fortran 90 
	HP C200		Fortran 90 
	HP 720		Fortran 90 
	IBM RS/6000 	Fortran 77 
 
The output files supplied by the authors were computed on the HP 
C200.  The programs were compiled and linked with the default 
options for the Hewlett-Packard Fortran 90 compiler. 
 
For additional information on the use of these programs, please 
feel free to contact the authors at the following e_mail 
addresses: 
 
	Kendall-Atkinson@uiowa.edu 
 
	yjeon@madang.ajou.ac.kr 
 
In addition, see the web site URL 
 
	http://www.math.uiowa.edu/~atkinson/laplace.html 
 
Corrections and updates will be noted here.

Date of current code: 7 April 1998
